# Unit 1

## Goal-Oriented Learning

1. Make a basic HTML + CSS webpage
   1. Make first Git commit
   2. Publish to Vercel or Netlify
2. Add card element to the page
3. Add images to cards
4. Create a flexbox layout of 9 cards
5. Create a topnav layout
6. Create secondary pages to link to: Blog and About (reuse homepage markup & styles)
7. Apply hover effects and transition to menu and icon(s)
8. Alternatives to VS Code live server
   1. run server from command line using nodejs rather than vscode extension
      1. `npm i http-server -g`
      2. `http-server -c-1` (use no cache, so style changes are registered on reload)
      3. within index.html: append  `?ts=time()` to `<linkrel="stylesheet"href="styles.css?ts=time()">`
      4. now it reloads on manual reload; now we want to get hot reload
   2. use vite for server
      1. https://vitejs.dev/guide/
9. create vanilla components for cards and loop
10. add svelte
    1. add Card component
    2. use `{#each [1,2,3] as column}` and a nested #each to create a grid
    3. add buttons to add/remove columns and rows using `{#each Array(columns) as col}` syntax, with `columns` and `rows` as integers
11. styling
    1. go deeper into flexbox
    2. begin using Grid
12. add tailwindcss

## Concept-Oriented Learning

* What is web development?
  * What is a webpage?
  * What are client and server?
  * How does the internet work? (super simple version)
* What is HTML? CSS? JS? And their relationships?
* HTML document structure

## Process

### Student Process

* Make Git commits at every sub-section, or even more often as desired. Practice making concise but meaningful commit messages.
* Push whenever you want (which will update your live website)
* Have your website open in a browser via the Live Server extension, and your code open in VS Code. Have another window open to searching for answers and resources.
* When the layout or style isn't working as you want, always check the elements via Inspector (highlight elements and look at position, size, and box model)
* When you want to implement some CSS changes, do it in Inspector first, unless you're sure what you need to declare

### Pedagogical Modes

1. **Imperative**: tell the student exactly what to do, and explain before, during, and/or after as appropriate
2. **Declarative**: tell the student what to achieve, providing specifications and visual references of the end state, and any relevant resources, tips or advice
3. **Collaborative**: ask the student what they want to achieve, come to a declared goal together, and guide them towards achieving it
4. **Student As Teacher**: student sets own goal, documents learning, and presents their results to peers (or roleplay peers)

### Dissemination / Interaction

1. #### Video + written instructions (on a course website)

   1. Normal lecture dissemination by video per unit/lesson of the course
   2. Includes written instructions, lists and explanations, diagrams, illustrations, mockups, demos
2. #### GitHub branches and commits

   1. Course Master Repo
      1. Each course unit, unit lesson, and exercise are located with a course repository.
      2. The units are given as branches
      3. The lessons and exercises are provided within separate commits, in order
      4. The practical material is located in the project, including required/demo assets, text/markdown files outlining lessons, exercises, and linking to resources
   2. Student Repo
      1. project branches: teachers/mentors or peers pull the student's project, branch it, makes some changes, document those changes with instructions, and push it back to the student to engage with
3. #### Live project pages

   1. webpages and interactive app components provide both written instructions and interactive exercises
   2. these can be bespoke and built for me course, or they can be linked to appropriate 3rd-party resources online
4. #### Live Instruction

   1. Some mode of screensharing/video chat room

## Additional Resources & Setup
